---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  VGhlIENvbWluZyBMYWJvciBTaG9ydGFnZQo=
enki_id: 4548
---
I picked up a copy of Business 2.0 magazine (<a
href="http://www.business2.com">www.business2.com</a>) last night, and
learned about something very interesting.

<p>
I may have been in the dark for the past few years, but there are
apparently quite a few people and agencies who believe that the united
states is headed into a huge labor shortage. <b>LABOR</b> shortage. Sorry
for being obnoxious, but with the way things are going these days two of
the people I&#8217;ve mentioned this to since last night said &quot;Yea, of
course there&#8217;s a shortage&quot;, their brains auto-munging my words
into &quot;job shortage&quot;.
</p>
<p>
The claims are based on demographics. In a nutshell, the number of
working-aged people is going to drop sharply over the next few years as the
baby boomers retire. The percentage of college educated people is
stabilizing at around 60%. And, the number of jobs is going to grow at a
slow and predictable rate. This apparently results in millions of US jobs
that can&#8217;t be filled by US workers.
</p>
<p>
Business 2.0 doesn&#8217;t have the article up yet, but until then, Google
turns up a lot of hits. Here are a few:
</p>
<p>
<a
href="http://featuredreports.monster.com/laborshortage/forecast/">featuredreports.monster.com/laborshortage/forecast/</a>
</p>
<p>
<a
href="http://www.cfo.com/article/1,5309,9847,00.html?f=features">www.cfo.com/article/1,5309,9847,00.html?f=features</a>
</p>
<p>
<a
href="http://www.csmonitor.com/2003/0106/p16s02-wmwo.html">www.csmonitor.com/2003/0106/p16s02-wmwo.html</a>
</p>
<p>
<a
href="http://www.bizjournals.com/austin/stories/2003/02/03/focus1.html">www.bizjournals.com/austin/stories/2003/02/03/focus1.html</a>
</p>
<p>
Not surprisingly, there are nay-sayers as well. I remember reading about
the &quot;Y2K disaster&quot; in 1996. People generally thought that the Y2K
doomsayers were insane. There&#8217;s a little of that going around now:
</p>
<p>
<a
href="http://heather.cs.ucdavis.edu/itaa.real.html">heather.cs.ucdavis.edu/itaa.real.html</a>
</p>
<p>
<a
href="http://www.geocities.com/tablizer/shortage.htm">www.geocities.com/tablizer/shortage.htm</a>
(warning: this one is moronic)
</p>
<p>
This is all very confusing. Should I be reading &quot;How to Keep Your
Job&quot; (<a
href="http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/talks/HowToKeepYourJob/HowToKeepYourJob.htm">www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/talks/HowToKeepYourJob/HowToKeepYourJob.htm</a>)
or &quot;How to <b>Pick</b> Your Job&quot;? I guess I&#8217;ll have to
hedge and prepare for both.
</p>
