---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  RGVsLmljaW8udXMK
enki_id: 4458
---
<a href="http://del.icio.us">del.icio.us</a>

<pre>
  Delicious is a social bookmarks manager.
</pre>
<p>
You can subscribe to my bookmarks and I can subscribe to yours. These are
available via RSS or HTML.
</p>
<p>
I&#8217;ve been meaning to mention this for a while, but it hasn&#8217;t
been &quot;officially&quot; public until sometime fairly recently. Joshua
(<a href="http://burri.to/~joshua/">burri.to/~joshua/</a>), who developed
del.icio.us, is also the creator of memepool (<a
href="http://memepool.com/">memepool.com/</a>) and GeoURL (<a
href="http://geourl.org/">geourl.org/</a>).
</p>
<p>
I&#8217;ve had a similar idea for some time but with some extended
statistical analysis features which Joshua insists would be too difficult
to actually implement if I tried. So, instead I&#8217;ll just start using
his and see where it leads.
</p>
<p>
It&#8217;s really convenient, in that you can create bookmarks using a
simple del.icio.us bookmarklet.
</p>
<p>
What&#8217;s going to be more interesting than the basic
functionality&#8212;it&#8217;s a very simple idea really&#8212;is the
network effect of how people, links, and categories&#8217; interactions
emerge into clusters and metatopics.
</p>
<p>
Also, wouldn&#8217;t you love to have a running list of the stuff your
&quot;heroes&quot; are reading and finding intersting enough to bookmark? I
can think of a handful of software developers whose moves I would love to
track. What are the seeds that are going to grow the next big innovations
or the New Thinking about software development? Perhaps some of them might
show up in these lists.
</p>
<p>
Of course, as this grows it may become too eclectic for anyone to find
interesting as a flat, running, aggregated list. Somehow this needs to
become &quot;social&quot; at a different level and evolve into communities
(to be fair, Joshua warns on the site, &quot;This system is pre-pre-alpha;
many features have yet to be added. Additionally, many, many bugs remain.
Please be careful.&quot;). Artima (<a
href="http://www.artima.com/buzz/index.jsp">www.artima.com/buzz/index.jsp</a>)
attempts to do this in a very limited way with its &quot;Buzz&quot;
feature. But, with Artima&#8217;s application, you have to choose a single
category that your posts will fit into, and it&#8217;s obviously hard to
find a category that <b>always</b> works.
</p>
<p>
I wonder if you could apply Vector Space Search (<a
href="http://www.perl.com/pub/a/2003/02/19/engine.html">www.perl.com/pub/a/2003/02/19/engine.html</a>)
to this problem to auto-clump bookmarks or people into categories.
</p>
<p>
OK. Now go sign up (<a
href="http://del.icio.us/register">del.icio.us/register</a>) at del.icio.us
so I can subscribe to your bookmarks. You can see mine here (<a
href="http://del.icio.us/chad">del.icio.us/chad</a>).
</p>
