---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  U3BhY2VzCg==
enki_id: 4583
---
Over the past week, I&#8217;ve been playing around with RSS news
aggregators. I think I&#8217;ve settled (for now) on Spaces (<a
href="http://www.dynamicobjects.com">www.dynamicobjects.com</a>).
It&#8217;s actually a full email client/PIM as well as a news aggregator.
What I really like about it is that the news posts trail in as messages in
your inbox along with the actual emails. It&#8217;s nice to only have to
look one place when I turn on my computer. And, when I search the messages
in my inbox, it takes into account almost any online material I&#8217;m
likely to have been reading.

<p>
Now, I just have to train myself not to open up my web browser and start
visiting the sites for which I now <b>know</b> there are no updates. It
sounds ridiculous, but I&#8217;ve been doing it consistently. This confirms
the habitual nature of my internet-browsing behaviour.
</p>
<p>
I&#8217;ve also still been using AgentFrank (<a
href="http://www.decafbad.com/twiki/bin/view/Main/AgentFrank">www.decafbad.com/twiki/bin/view/Main/AgentFrank</a>)
in combination with the aggregators. What I would <b>love</b> now is
integration between something like Spaces and something like AgentFrank.
I&#8217;m sure this idea would make a lot of people ill (especially the
paranoid), but I would like for an AgentFrankish thing to discover what
I&#8217;m looking at (repeatedly or based on semantic closeness to things I
look at repeatedly) and then start pulling new items into a Spaces-esque
aggregator without my asking it to. AgentFrank helps me to stop forgetting
the interesting sites I find, and Spaces helps me to remember (or, more
correctly, to not <b>have</b> to remember) to look at the interesting sites
I know about. The combination of the two could be really powerful for a
scatter-brained guy like me.
</p>
