---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  Q2VsZWJyYXRpbmcgNTAwMCBkb3dubG9hZHMgb2YgUnVieUdlbXM=
enki_id: 4474
---
<h3>The Stats</h3>
111 unique libraries <a href="http://gems.rubyforge.org/gems">available as
gems</a>

<p>
249 unique library releases
</p>
<p>
5000 plus downloads of <a href="http://rubygems.rubyforge.org">RubyGems</a>
</p>
<p>
20688 <a href="http://gems.rubyforge.org/stats.html">downloads</a> of gem
libraries
</p>
<hr size="2"></hr><h3>Learn about it</h3>
<p>
<a href="http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/ruby/gems.pdf">RubyGems
chapter</a> in <a
href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/ruby/">Programming Ruby</a> (<a
href="http://books.slashdot.org/books/04/10/13/1843240.shtml?tid=156&tid=6">slashdotted</a>
today)
</p>
<p>
Jim Weirich&#8217;s <a
href="http://onestepback.org/articles/rubygemsfacets/">RubyGems
presentation</a> from <a href="http://rubycentral.org">RubyConf 2004</a>
((<a href="http://www.chadfowler.com/12-RubyGems.mp3">Listen in mp3!</a>))
</p>
<hr size="2"></hr><h3>Help us celebrate!</h3>
<p>
Let&#8217;s make those numbers up there get bigger (especially the first
one)!
</p>
<ol>
<li><a href="http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126">Go get RubyGems 0.8.1</a>
if you don&#8217;t already have it.

</li>
<li>Pick a library that you either created or really like

</li>
<li>Check to see if there is a gem already available for it (gem search -r
libraryname)

</li>
<li>If yes, goto 1.

</li>
<li>Read the <a
href="http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/ruby/gems.pdf">RubyGems
chapter</a> in Programming Ruby.

</li>
<li>Create a gemspec (or a <a
href="http://rubygems.rubyforge.org/wiki/wiki.pl?CreateAGemUsingRake">Rakefile</a>)
and build the gem.

</li>
<li>If this is not your library, send the gemspec/rakefile to the author and
ask them to add it to their build process.

</li>
<li>If this is your library, add the gemspec/rakefile to your build process.

</li>
<li>If you have a <a href="http://rubyforge.org">RubyForge</a> project for this
library, release the gem, and it will be automatically available via remote
install (gem install mywonderfullibrary)

</li>
<li>If you don&#8217;t have a RubyForge project, email me (chad at
chadfowler.com) and I&#8217;ll make sure the gem gets added for you.

</li>
</ol>
<p>
If you need help, email me or find me on irc (#ruby-lang,#rubyonrails on
irc.freenode.net) or on AIM (cefogc). I may be busy when you initially
contact me, but trust that I&#8217;ll be happy to hear from you.
</p>
<p>
Imagine when the number 111 from above becomes 1111 and virtually any Ruby
library or application you could think of is installable (with all of its
dependencies) with a single command. How fast can we make that happen? How
big a chunk can one person contribute to that goal?
</p>
