---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  QmlnIElzIHRoZSBOZXcgU21hbGwK
enki_id: 4454
---
<a href="http://steveakers.blogspot.com">Steve Akers</a> is <a
href="http://steveakers.blogspot.com/2005/10/we-define-web-20.html">riffing</a>
on <a
href="http://headrush.typepad.com/creating_passionate_users/2005/10/the_best_thing_.html">Kathy
Sierra's "The best thing about Web 2.0" post</a>. &quot;We define Web
2.0&quot;, he echoes. And that&#8217;s a good thing, because it makes those
of us who want to do &quot;Web 2.0&quot; get creative in our quests to
achieve it.

<p>
What&#8217;s much more interesting than the specific Web 2.0 discussion to
me is that Steve draws some surprisingly hip ideas from one of the most
corporate of corporations, General Electric. Not only are the lessons
relevant, but they&#8217;re uniquely &quot;big&quot;. You couldn&#8217;t
learn them in the same way from a small company.
</p>
<p>
With the buzz all around <a href="http://37signals.com/svn">small teams and
small software</a> these days, it would be easy to forget the wisdom to be
gleaned from years of big companies. It would be easy to forget that some
software <em>should</em> be big, and that big isn&#8217;t <em>always</em>
bad. And though they&#8217;re easy targets for criticism, it would be easy
to miss the fact that there is a lot to be learned from experience in a big
company.
</p>
<p>
If you&#8217;re slaving away in such a company now, try tearing down some
of the Dilbert cartoons and looking at what the company does <em>right</em>
for a change. You may find that some of the stagnation you perceive is a
direct result of your own cynicism.
</p>
