---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  VGhlIFdyb25nIFN0b3J5Cg==
enki_id: 4573
---
<a href="http://sethgodin.com">Seth Godin</a>, on the weblog for his new
book, <a
href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/1591841003/002-2313251-5595221">All
Marketers Are Liars</a>, tells a <a
href="http://blog.sethgodin.silkblogs.com/Do-you-have-a-Home-Depot-problem.4222.entry">story</a>
that is heavily relevant to software developers today. He talks about how
Home Depot, having conquered the mom and pop hardware shops, has been
struggling to grow.

<p>
The problem, says Seth, is that Home Depot continues to sell a story that
appeals to only a specific worldview: that of Home Depot geeks.
</p>
<pre>
        Many people, though, see nothing but dread here. They see a store
        with no helpful salespeople, a jumble of product, none just quite
        right, a very very long checkout line and fear.
</pre>
<p>
Home Depot, with its tall, garage-like appearance, and its endless piles of
screws and bolts&#8212;all alike, is a nightmarish place for someone like
me. To confirm Seth&#8217;s assertion, when I&#8217;m looking for a light
bulb, there&#8217;s no way in <em>hell</em> I&#8217;m going to go to a Home
Depot for it. I only go there when I absolutely have to.
</p>
<p>
So how is this relevant for software developers? If you are a software
developer, think about this concept of customer &quot;worldview&quot; and
how it applies to you and your career. Which worldview are you
<em>really</em> selling your story for?
</p>
<p>
For most of us, it&#8217;s the worldview of a fellow software developer.
But, software developers aren&#8217;t the ones that need our services.
<em>Scared</em> business people do. It&#8217;s the Home Depot problem! We
<a href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/mjwti/index.html">lose our
jobs to offshoring</a> or experience salary deflation, and we blame the
<em>customers</em>. How can they send <em>our</em> jobs overseas? Why
don&#8217;t they <em>understand</em> what we&#8217;re worth?
</p>
<p>
Perhaps they don&#8217;t understand, because you&#8217;re telling them a
story that was meant for other <em>programmers</em> to hear. It may even be
a story, as is the case with me and Home Depot, that is <em>scaring</em>
them. This one may have &quot;worked&quot; for years, but you see where
it&#8217;s getting us now. And, as Seth says, yelling the same story louder
isn&#8217;t going to make it stick.
</p>
<p>
In fact, it&#8217;s probably just going to get annoying.
</p>
