---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  TG92ZSBpdCBPciBMZWF2ZSBpdA==
enki_id: 4579
---
As I mentioned in a <a
href="http://chadfowler.com/index.cgi/Writing/MyJobWentToIndiaDone.rdoc,v">previous
post</a>, though my goal was to help others, the process of writing <a
href="http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/mjwti/">My Job Went to
India</a> has already helped <em>me</em>.

<p>
While living in Bangalore, I saw <a
href="http://www.martinfowler.com">Martin Fowler</a> speak at a
Thoughtworks-sponsored event on agile development. The one thing he said
that has stuck with me since then is that when he wants to learn about
something, he writes about it. It&#8217;s obvious that writing a book or an
essay on a topic would help you learn about it, but it never occurred to me
that these guru-authors might be writing about things that they
didn&#8217;t already know before starting a book or article. Writing is
both a process of documentation <tt>and</tt> discovery.
</p>
<p>
That makes a lot of sense when you&#8217;re writing about a technology.
There are bound to be nooks and crannies that you hadn&#8217;t previously
explored, even if you&#8217;re an expert. To present a complete picture,
you&#8217;re going to have to dig into things you hadn&#8217;t previously
had a need for.
</p>
<p>
What wasn&#8217;t as obvious to me was that the same would be true of
non-tech writing. My book isn&#8217;t a reference manual. It&#8217;s a
collection of bits of advice. It&#8217;s less about knowledge and more
about common sense, good judgement, and wisdom. So the nooks and crannies I
explored as I wrote weren&#8217;t in obscure language features or rarely
touched APIs. They were in concepts that I had either taught myself or had
absorbed through osmosis from the wiser people around me throughout my
career.
</p>
<p>
While I was codifying ideas that had been everyday companions to me for
years, they went from being rough and ragged to polished. Not only were
they clearer for my readers (the purpose of the polishing) but they were
actually <em>better</em>. As a result I have produced advice that, at least
on a granular level, is new to me.
</p>
<p>
So there&#8217;s this one particular section of my book that I learned a
<em>lot</em> from. I&#8217;ve read it many times since it was written, and
I&#8217;ve thought about it even more. It&#8217;s called &quot;Love it or
Leave it&quot;. The premise is that, if you don&#8217;t love what
you&#8217;re doing, you won&#8217;t be <em>great</em> at it. Or to flip it
around, if you love your job, you stand a much greater chance of being
great at it.
</p>
<p>
Stated alone like this, it couldn&#8217;t get any more obvious. But this
book is about making things actionable. I realized as I thought about it
that I was unable to come up with a recent personal example of how
<em>I</em> had taken this most primitive piece of advice and done something
about it. My career had taken a turn that most Americans would consider to
be &quot;success&quot;, and I had let it take me where it wanted. That
meant management in big corporations.
</p>
<p>
But the undercurrent that was always tugging on me was that I looked at a
lot of my friends in the industry with a feeling of envy. I wished
<em>I</em> could (at least attempt to) innovate all day. I wished
<em>I</em> could write Ruby code full time. I wished <em>I</em> could work
in an environment that was 100% focused on getting things done instead of
drifting in the tides of corporate politics. I wanted to work for a company
that was focused on <em>winning</em> instead of trying not to
<em>lose</em>.
</p>
<p>
So I decided to take my own advice and find this environment I&#8217;d been
looking for. On the same day that I decided to look, I <a
href="http://naviance.com">found it</a>. <a
href="http://www.kellyjeanne.org">Kelly</a> and I are moving to Denver, so
that I can be a full time Ruby (on <a
href="http://www.rubyonrails.org">Rails</a>) developer for Naviance.
</p>
<p>
Several years in the big corporate world creates a lot of inertia.
It&#8217;s no easy decision to make. But it feels <em>right</em> once
it&#8217;s done, and the interactions I&#8217;ve had with my new team only
serve to reinforce my choice.
</p>
<p>
The team is going to stay small and focused. We&#8217;re looking for a <a
href="http://www.naviance.com/company/webdes.html">designer with Rails
experience</a>. Might this be the leap you&#8217;ve been waiting to make?
</p>
