---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  QnV0IERvIEkgSGF2ZSBUbyBXb3JrPwo=
enki_id: 4582
---
A small but not insignificant percentage of readers of <a
href="http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/mjwti/">My Job Went to
India</a> have surfaced a bit of a theme. It&#8217;s a theme that surprises
me, though if I had read my own book it really shouldn&#8217;t.
Here&#8217;s a snippet from &quot;Tolak&quot;, an Amazon reviewer, that
calls the book &quot;Useful but ultimately hypocritical&quot;:

<pre>
        In the final analysis, if one views a career as a
        product or a project to be managed accordingly, as demanded
        in this book, scope creep looms as a problem that's never discussed.
        Where the reader to follow the advice, they would not have the time for
        family life, leisure, rest and the general pursuit of happiness
        that their fellow American workers, those not in the IT industry,
        are entitled to.
</pre>
<p>
And another reviewer, going by &quot;alefinus&quot; says:
</p>
<pre>
        The book is engaging and well written. Many points brought by the
        author are indisputable. It is unfortunate that in order to act on
        just a few of them one need to have a strong will and a lot of spare
        time.
</pre>
<p>
Unfortunate. Strong will. Why should anyone need to have the <em>will</em>
to succeed? Why can&#8217;t we just succeed because, say, we&#8217;re
American? Isn&#8217;t that one of the rights afforded us in one of those
parts of the Constitution or something? Seems like we should be able to
just watch an infomercial, call our congressperson, and wait for the postal
service to deliver the letter announcing that success has arrived.
</p>
<p>
If I&#8217;m going to hire someone without the will to succeed, I might as
well pay as little as possible, right?
</p>
<p>
These reviews have brought out a point that I feel is important to
emphasize to avoid any further loss of time or money: MJWTI is not a book
for people who lack the will to succeed. If you don&#8217;t have the will
to succeed, stick to romance novels or the comic section of the newspaper.
</p>
