---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  UmFpbHMgRGF5Cg==
enki_id: 4519
---
<a href="http://www.rubyonrails.com">Ruby on Rails</a> has got to be the
most hyped non-commercial web programming tool in history. A lot of Java
and .NET people are skeptical. Some are even downright angry.

<p>
If I were them, I would be angry too. You&#8217;ve got people like <a
href="http://blog.curthibbs.us/">Curt</a> running around <a
href="http://www.onlamp.com/pub/a/onlamp/2005/01/20/rails.html">preaching</a>
about a 10x productivity increase over other web frameworks. And, of
course, <a href="http://www.loudthinking.com">David</a> receives a great
deal of pleasure in taking pot shots at the poor J2EE and PHP people (come
on, David, it&#8217;s like taking candy from a baby!). And, to top it all
off, when they pull off the cover of hype, they find that there really
<em>is</em> a productivity increase approaching what might feel like 10x.
<em>Damn</em>!
</p>
<p>
The people of the Ruby and Rails community are about to put the
productivity claim to a real test (though most would call it a
demonstration, not a test): <a href="http://railsday.com">Rails Day</a>.
Rails Day is being organized by <a href="http://rufy.com">Lucas Carlson</a>
(and others?). On June 4, web developers will have a chance to show just
how much application functionality they can pack into 24 hours of
development. They&#8217;ll be working in teams of no greater than 3 people,
using ONLY libraries installable via <a
href="http://rubygems.rubyforge.org">RubyGems</a>, competing for a
collection of fabulous prizes. (Not quite as thrilling as, say the Mac
Mini, <a href="http://rubycentral.org">Ruby Central</a> is giving away a
free <a href="http://rubyconf.org">RubyConf</a> pass). By the time it would
take a Java team to get their IDEs installed, the contest will be over, and
we&#8217;ll have a set of new web applications that are <em>sure</em> to be
smashing.
</p>
<p>
So, you&#8217;ve got more than a month to prepare. If you don&#8217;t
already know Rails (or even Ruby), it&#8217;s not too late. Believe me: one
month is <em>plenty</em> of time to learn both of them.
</p>
<p>
Also, remember that you can only use <em>gems</em>, libraries included with
the Ruby distribution, or Rails itself (which is a gem, of course). This
means you can cheat! You have a month to create and release all of the gems
you may need to create the killer web application. A <em>whole</em>
<em>month</em>! Go read the <a href="http://www.railsday.com">list of
prizes</a>. Now make some gems! (Never mind the fact that there are already
258 different gems to choose from&#8212;not including the multiple versions
of each&#8212;you&#8217;ll still need more!)
</p>
<p>
And, remember: this contest is about fun. Don&#8217;t be too mean to the
Java, .NET, and PHP people afterward (I won&#8217;t even mention the Python
and Perl people&#8230;that wouldn&#8217;t be fair). They already feel bad
enough.
</p>
