---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  SGFpa3UgSW4gVGhlIFdpbGQK
enki_id: 4486
---
Tonight, <a href="http://redhanded.hobix.com">Why</a> posted some lovely
Ruby <a href="http://redhanded.hobix.com/bits/haikuRb.html">haiku</a>,
which reminded me of a program I&#8217;ve been dreaming of writing for a
few years now. So, I sat down and started it.

<p>
It takes a body of text, and attempts to automatically extract random haiku
from it (&quot;haiku&quot; in this case being mis-defined as any text that
conforms to the 5/7/5 syllable pattern).
</p>
<p>
I ran it against the raw text of my weblog and generated some really heavy
stuff, man:
</p>
<pre>
  Time is running out.
  If you own a home (or rent?)
  The answer is &quot;no&quot;.

  Climbing on my head!
  Do you have an idea?
  Don't do crack cocaine.

  &quot;weird cryptic syntax&quot;?
  would take a *lot* of practice.
  Don't even
  try it.

  The answer is &quot;no&quot;.
  Code Generation is New?
  (A week late, I know.)
</pre>
<p>
The program uses <a
href="http://www.pressure.to/ruby/">Lingua::EN::Sentence and
Lingua::EN::Syllable</a>, which made it completely trivial to write.
</p>
<p>
I can imagine, given a sufficiently large body of input text and a <a
href="http://www.chadfowler.com/index.cgi/Computing/LatentSemanticIndexing.rdoc">Latent
Semantic Indexing</a> search engine, you could make some super-cheesey
poetry with it.
</p>
<p>
The code is <a href="http://www.chadfowler.com/haiku.rb.html">here</a> if
you&#8217;re interested.
</p>
