---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  QW5vdGhlciAiTG92ZSBpdCBvciBMZWF2ZSBJdCIgU3RvcnkgKG9yIDIp
enki_id: 4581
---
As a followup to my <a
href="http://chadfowler.com/index.cgi/Computing/Career/LoveItOrLeaveIt.rdoc,v">previous
post</a>, Tim Case has <a
href="http://karmacrash.com/articles/2005/08/24/love-it-or-leave-it-indeed">posted
an inspirational story</a> about having the courage to take control of his
own career as a software developer.

<p>
Frustrated by the software industry and the job market, Tim (like many
software developers, I&#8217;d bet) struggled with whether to find a new
line of work altogether. Here&#8217;s a cliffhanger for you:
</p>
<pre>
  I didn't want to leave because I was learning
  more about software and each new thing I learned made me want to keep
  learning more but I also couldn't keep throwing myself into the winds
  of marketplace expectations.  I gave up on trying to get lucky and find
  that dream job.

  So what did I do?
</pre>
<p>
He took matters into his own hands. Give it a read.
</p>
<p>
I also stumbled across Kathy Sierra&#8217;s <a
href="http://headrush.typepad.com/creating_passionate_users/2005/01/you_20.html">You
2.0</a> post on the always thought-provoking <a
href="http://headrush.typepad.com/creating_passionate_users">Creating
Passionate Users</a> weblog.
</p>
<p>
The common theme is that it&#8217;s never too late to take control of your
destiny. Most people just never realize it&#8217;s even <em>possible</em>.
</p>
<p>
Do you have a similar story? I&#8217;d love to <a
href="mailto:chad+loveitorleaveit@chadfowler.com">hear about it</a>.
</p>
