---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  UmFpbHMgUmVjaXBlcyBCZXRhLCBLaWNrYXNzIFJlYWRlcnMsIGFuZCBBbm90
  aGVyIFByYWdtYXRpYyBKb2x0
enki_id: 4485
---
We&#8217;ve just released another <a
href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/fr_rr/index.html">Rails
Recipes</a> beta. This release features contributions from three of the
incredibly talented <a href="http://rubyonrails.org/core">Rails core team
members</a>: <a href="http://techno-weenie.net/">Rick Olson</a> (congrats,
Rick!), <a href="http://jamis.jamisbuck.org/">Jamis Buck</a>, and <a
href="http://vernix.org/marcel/">Marcel Molina, Jr.</a>. These guys are not
only gifted programmers but gifted writers and teachers as well.

<p>
It&#8217;s exciting to watch the framework evolve, and writing this book
has given me a chance to witness and document the bleeding edge as it
happens. As a result, I&#8217;ve been able to cover a lot of the features
in the upcoming Rails 1.1 release, for which there really is no other
source of documentation right now.
</p>
<p>
The <a href="http://fora.pragprog.com/rails-recipes">forum</a> we <a
href="http://chadfowler.com/index.cgi/Computing/Programming/Ruby/DiscussRailsRecipes.rdoc,v">opened
last week</a> has been a wonderful source of ideas and inspiration. Thanks
a <em>ton</em> to everyone who has signed up and contributed. Specifically
notable are the two recipes <a
href="http://fora.pragprog.com/rails-recipes/write-your-own">created by
readers</a>:
</p>
<p>
<a href="http://www.apptrain.org/">Mike Blake</a> posted a <a
href="http://fora.pragprog.com/rails-recipes/write-your-own/post/42">really
useful recipe</a> on backing up your data using <a
href="http://rake.rubyforge.org">Rake</a> and ActiveRecord fixtures.
</p>
<p>
<a href="http://sl33p3r.free.fr/blog">Frederick Ros</a> then followed up
with an <a
href="http://fora.pragprog.com/rails-recipes/write-your-own/post/84">excellent
recipe</a> on using ActiveRecord with legacy databases that have their
<em>own</em> conventions.
</p>
<p>
As authors for the Ruby community, we&#8217;re blessed with a
super-intelligent audience for our books. No doubt that readers are
learning from <a
href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/fr_rr/index.html">Rails
Recipes</a>, but Rails Recipes is also learning from its readers.
</p>
<p>
Finally, CONGRATULATIONS to <a href="http://www.loudthinking.com">David</a>
and <a href="http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com">Dave and Andy</a> for
<em>cleaning</em> <em>house</em> on the <a
href="http://www.sdmagazine.com/pressroom/jolt_finalists_2006.html">16th
Annual Jolt Awards</a>. The Jolt Awards are kind of like the Grammys or the
Oscars of our industry. Dave and Andy <a
href="http://chadfowler.com/index.cgi/Computing/Programming/PragmaticJoltAward.rdoc,v">won
once before</a>. Pretty amazing for a young publishing house to win twice
in three years!
</p>
