---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  UmFpbHNDb25mIGlzIFNlbGxpbmcgT3V0IEZhc3QhCg==
enki_id: 4514
---
I stayed up late last night opening up <a
href="http://railsconf.org/">RailsConf registration</a>. Before I even got
the time to post about it here, we&#8217;re well on our way to <a
href="http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/articles/2006/02/02/railsconf-2006-selling-fast">selling
out</a>.

<p>
RailsConf is going to be <em>the</em> conference to go to this year.
We&#8217;ve got a <a href="http://railsconf.org/pages/keynotes/">keynote
lineup</a> so amazing I can hardly believe it. We have over 80 high quality
talk proposals to pick from, so the main session content is guaranteed to
be incredible. We&#8217;re planning panel discussions with the <a
href="http://rubyonrails.org/core">Rails Core team</a>, and time for
self-organizing activities.
</p>
<p>
But I think the thing I&#8217;m most proud of, which I can&#8217;t take any
credit for, is the <a href="http://railsconf.org/pages/guidebook">Rails
Guidebook</a>. What if you were excited about a technology and really
wanted to attend a conference to learn about it, but you thought the
sessions might all be over your head? How would you prepare yourself to
make sure you got the most out of the experience?
</p>
<p>
How about getting the <a href="http://www.pragmaticstudio.com">top
instructors in the field</a> to give you a one-day immersion, covering
everything you need to know to feel like an <em>insider</em> at the
conference? That&#8217;s what the Rails Guidebook is. Dave Thomas and Mike
Clark, of the Pragmatic Studio, are going to be laying all the groundwork
you might need all day on June 22.
</p>
<p>
Members of the Rails Core team and the RubyGems team will be onsite for an
install fest, that will get you and your laptop all set up to experiment
and create during the conference.
</p>
<p>
And all you have to do to attend the Guidebook session (aside from
registering for the conference itself) is to donate money to one or more of
a <a
href="http://www.justgive.org/basket?donorId=42670&listTypeId=1&acton=viewList">predefined
list of charities</a>. The minimum requested donation is $40 US, but
we&#8217;ve already seen people exceed that by leaps and bounds. It&#8217;s
exciting to see people giving so generously in the name of Ruby and Rails.
</p>
<p>
When the Guidebook fills up (and that&#8217;s going to happen
<em>soon</em>), I would love to see the giving continue. Dave and Mike will
be announcing how much we as a community have raised at RailsConf. So even
if you&#8217;re not going to attend the Guidebook session&#8212;or even
RailsConf&#8212;help <a
href="http://www.justgive.org/basket?donorId=42670&listTypeId=1&acton=viewList">make
the community proud</a>.
</p>
<p>
Let&#8217;s put another <em>insanely</em> <em>great</em> <a
href="http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/articles/2006/02/01/secrets-behind-ruby-on-rails-the-numbers">number
on the map</a> for the Ruby community.
</p>
