---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  UmFpbHMgUmVjaXBlcyBUYWxr
enki_id: 4475
---
To celebrate another beta release of <a
href="http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/fr_rr/">Rails Recipes</a>
today, we&#8217;ve opened up a <a
href="http://fora.pragprog.com/rails-recipes">discussion forum</a> (powered
by the wonderful new <a
href="http://home.leetsoft.com/opinion">Opinion</a>) for readers to post
ideas, suggestions, <em>success</em> <em>stories</em> (please!) and even
their own recipes. Thousands of people are reading and using the book to
solve <em>real</em> <em>problems</em>, and we wanted to give them each a
voice.

<p>
There have been so many great recipe suggestions showing up in my inbox
every day, that I didn&#8217;t want to keep them all for myself. A lot of
those suggestions will make it into the book. Others won&#8217;t simply due
to the volume. But the recipe format is obviously resonating with people,
so there&#8217;s no reason we shouldn&#8217;t turn those ideas into helpful
documentation.
</p>
<p>
From now on, instead of sending your ideas to me directly, let&#8217;s
start a <a href="http://fora.pragprog.com/rails-recipes">discussion</a>
that everyone can benefit from.
</p>
<p>
Tell everyone:
</p>
<ul>
<li>What cool stuff you did with the recipes in the book

</li>
<li>How you expanded on the ideas presented

</li>
<li>Problems you had that you need help with

</li>
<li>Problems you had that you can help others with

</li>
<li>Or just give us your ideas and suggestions for the book.

</li>
</ul>
<p>
The book is still in development, so this is a good chance to have an
impact on a book that will shape how the Rails community approaches its
problems from now into the future.
</p>
