---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  UmFpbHMgUmVjaXBlcyBpcyBEb25l
enki_id: 4505
---
<a href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com">Dave</a> tells me <a
href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/fr_rr/">Rails Recipes</a> is <a
href="http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/articles/2006/05/15/rails-recipes-is-out-of-beta">out
of beta</a> and on the way to the printers.

<p>
It&#8217;s been a short (but seemingly long) and intense ride, and
I&#8217;m looking forward to a little rest and relaxation. I owe a huge
thanks to everyone who contributed ideas, content, and bug reports.
</p>
<p>
For those of you who have been trying to decide whether to grab a copy,
here&#8217;s the first part of the book&#8217;s introduction, which will
hopefully give you a better sense of what I was trying to accomplish in the
book:
</p>
<h2>What Makes a Good Recipe Book?</h2>
<pre>
  If I were to buy a real recipe book---you know, a book about cooking
  food---I wouldn't be looking for a book that tells me how to dice vegetables
  or how to use a skillet. I can find that kind of information in an
  overview about cooking.

  A recipe book is about how to make food you might not be able to easily
  figure out how to make on your own. It's about skipping the trial and
  error and jumping straight to a solution that works. Sometimes it's
  even about making food you never imagined you could make.

  If you want to learn how to make great Indian food, you buy a recipe
  book by a great Indian chef and follow his or her directions. You're not
  just buying any old solution. You're buying a solution you can trust to
  be good. That's why famous chefs sell lots and lots of books. People
  want to make food that tastes good, and these chefs know how to make
  (and teach you how to make) food that tastes good.

  Good recipe books do teach you techniques. Sometimes they even teach
  you about new tools. But they teach these skills within the context and
  with the end goal of making something---not just to teach them.

  My goal for Rails Recipes is to teach you how to make great stuff with
  Rails and to do it right on your first try. These recipes and the tech-
  niques herein are extractions from my own work and from the &quot;great
  chefs&quot; of Rails: the Rails core developer team, the leading trainers and
  authors, and the earliest of early adopters.

  I also hope to show you not only how to do things but to explain why
  they work the way they do. After reading through the recipes, you
  should walk away with a new level of Rails understanding to go with a
  huge list of successfully implemented hot new application features.

  Not all of these recipes are long and involved. To spice things up, I've
  included a number of smaller offerings, which I've called snacks. Typically
  one or two pages long, these snacks will help satisfy those cravings
  we all get between meals.
</pre>
