---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  VGhlIEJpZyBSZXdyaXRl
enki_id: 4469
---
<pre>
  This is the first in a series of articles, discussing why
  many software rewrite projects end badly and what
  to do to avoid some of the ways I've seen them go astray.
</pre>
You&#8217;ve got an existing, successful software product. You&#8217;ve hit
the ceiling on extensibility and maintainability. Your project platform is
inflexible, and your application is a software house of cards that
can&#8217;t support another new feature.

<p>
You&#8217;ve seen the videos, the weblog posts and the hype, and
you&#8217;ve decided you&#8217;re going to re-implement your product in
Rails (or Java, or .NET, or Erlang, etc.).
</p>
<p>
Beware. This is a longer, harder, more failure-prone path than you expect.
</p>
<p>
Throughout my career in software development, I&#8217;ve been involved in
Big Rewrite after Big Rewrite. I suspect it&#8217;s because I have an
interest in learning eclectic computer languages, operating systems, and
development environments. Not being just-a-Java-guy or just-a-Windows-guy
has led to me becoming a serial rewriter. I&#8217;ve been on projects to
replace C, COBOL, PHP, Visual Basic, Perl, PLSQL, VBX (don&#8217;t ask!)
and all manner of architectural atrocities with the latest and greatest
technology of the day.
</p>
<p>
In many cases, these Big Rewrite projects have resulted in unhappy
customers, political battles, missed deadlines, and sometimes complete
failure to deliver. In <em>all</em> cases, the projects were considerably
harder than the projects&#8217; initiators ever thought they would be.
</p>
<p>
This is not a technology problem. It&#8217;s not at all Rails-specific, but
being in the limelight these days, Rails implementations are both very
likely to happen and very risky right now.
</p>
<h2>Why So Hard?</h2>
<p>
So, why, in software rewrites, when you&#8217;re traversing exclusively
<em>familiar</em> territory are the results so often unpredictable and
negative?
</p>
<p>
For the next week, I&#8217;ll post specific reasons I&#8217;ve seen things
go wrong. The following is a list which will eventually be made into links:
</p>
<ul>
<li><a
href="http://www.chadfowler.com/2006/12/28/software-as-spec">Software
as Spec</a>

</li>
<li><a
href="http://www.chadfowler.com/2006/12/29/invention-or-implementation">Invention
or Implementation?</a>

</li>
<li><a href="http://chadfowler.com/2006/12/30/the-wish-list">The Wish List</a>

</li>
<li><a href="http://chadfowler.com/2007/01/02/the-big-bang">The Big Bang</a>

</li>
<li><a href="http://chadfowler.com/2007/01/03/justifications-and-lies">Justification and Lies</a>

</li>
<li><a href="http://chadfowler.com/2007/01/04/who-s-tending-the-store">Who&#8217;s Tending the Store?</a>

</li>
</ul>
<p>
Stay tuned.
</p>
