---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  VGl2byBmb3IgeW91ciBtaW5kCg==
enki_id: 4561
---
Howard Rheingold (<a
href="http://www.smartmobs.com/archives/001184.html">www.smartmobs.com/archives/001184.html</a>)
posted a link to a a wearable buffering video camera (<a
href="http://www.idg.net/ic_1322387_9677_1-5042.html">www.idg.net/ic_1322387_9677_1-5042.html</a>).
Apparently, you wear it on your eye glasses or cap, it buffers 30 seconds
of video (of what you&#8217;re seeing) at a time, and you can press a
button whenever you like to save the previous 30 seconds permanently. They
(<a href="http://www.mydejaview.com">www.mydejaview.com</a>) have another
model that can save up to 4 hours.

<p>
I don&#8217;t know whether to be excited or frightened, but I&#8217;m
leaning toward excited. It&#8217;s still pretty bulky, but I imagine
another year&#8217;ll solve that. I&#8217;d like to add a small playback
display, so when I space out during a conversation, I can gracefully
recover by pressing the capture button, excusing myself, and rewinding the
last 30 seconds:
</p>
<pre>
  &quot;How's that sound to you, Chad?&quot;
  (wakes up)
  &quot;Uh...yea...hold on just a moment.  I'll be right back.&quot;
  (leaves room, plays back video, returns)
  &quot;Right, then...&quot; (potentially less ignorant conversation ensues)
</pre>
<p>
Even more exciting&#8212;but farther off in the future&#8212;is the
possibility of combining the audio portion of this technology with wireless
networking, speech recognition, and text data mining. Imagine the power of
having a personal, searchable (<a
href="index.cgi/Computing/LatentSemanticIndexing.rdoc,v">LatentSemanticIndexing</a>),
index of every conversation you have and everything you hear. May that
sounds a little spooky? Doesn&#8217;t feel quite right to you? That&#8217;s
just the feeling of old age creeping over you&#8230;it&#8217;s OK. :)
</p>
