---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  VG91Z2ggTG92ZQo=
enki_id: 4568
---
You can try to hide it or dress it up as something more palatable, but
they&#8217;ll sniff it out and they&#8217;ll condemn it for what it is:
Marketing. Geeks hate marketing.

<p>
From <a href="http://www.pragmaticprogrammers.com/titles/mjwti">My Job Went
to India</a>:
</p>
<pre>
  A lot of software developers---especially the most conceited ones, it
  seems---live with the misconception that their skill should be self-evident
  to any clued-in manager or employer. They are able to comfortably veil this
  lie inside the cloud of a make believe moral ethic: theyre just too humble
  to market their own abilities. Going out of their way to make their abiliities
  known would be brown nosing. And, no self-respecting programmer would
  be caught dead sucking up to The Man.

  This is all just an excuse. Actually, they're afraid.
</pre>
<p>
You see, it&#8217;s <em>comfortable</em> to condemn any kind of
self-promotional activity. It&#8217;s easy. It&#8217;s common. It&#8217;s
the way of the flock.
</p>
<p>
Like one of those silly &quot;Question Reality&quot; bumper stickers,
it&#8217;s just conformist behaviour dressed up in such a way that people
who like to think of themselves as nonconformists can feel good about it.
</p>
<p>
It&#8217;s fear of rejection.
</p>
<p>
But fear of rejection stops us from putting ourselves in situations where
we <em>can</em> be rejected. The opposite of rejection is acceptance. And
in an economy, acceptance is success.
</p>
<p>
If we want this profession of software development to thrive, we&#8217;re
going to have to hand-hold or beat this mentality out of our people.
</p>
<p>
I promise. It&#8217;ll only hurt for a little while.
</p>
