---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  SG93IHRvIHByb25vdW5jZSBJbmRpYW4gbmFtZXMK
enki_id: 4453
---
As American and European software developers, we are increasingly exposed
to people from &quot;low cost countries&quot; such as India, China, and
various places in Eastern Europe. As I say in the wrap-up to <a
href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/mjwti/index.html">My Job Went
to India</a>, love it or hate it, working with people from around the world
is a skill that serious software developers need to cultivate.

<p>
I happen to know a lot about India. I speak Hindi. My <a
href="http://kellyjeanne.org">wife</a> and I lived in Bangalore for a year
and a half. We enjoy Indian movies, we <em>love</em> Indian food, and we
listen to a lot of Indian music. And, most relevant here, I know how to
work with Indian software developers. It&#8217;s fair to say that, by US
standards, I am an expert when it comes to Indian culture.
</p>
<p>
Cultural understanding is the backbone of a good working relationship with
<em>anyone</em> (even understanding corporate vs. hacker culture). So I
thought I&#8217;d try to help out with some fundamentals.
</p>
<p>
Imagine a new person showing up to work on your team and asking where he or
she needed to <em>FPT</em> a file to or which version of
<em>Serversion</em> you were using for version control. How impressed would
you be? How much confidence would you have in the person? This is the kind
of person that ends up being <a
href="http://thedailywtf.com/">lampooned</a> on the web.
</p>
<p>
If working with India is an important job skill, then horribly
mispronouncing the name &quot;Chandra&quot; or &quot;Rohit&quot; is as bad
a transgression as mispronouncing &quot;Subversion&quot; or constantly
referring to the Web as &quot;The Dub Dub Dub&quot;. It&#8217;s probably
worse, considering that many (most?) Indian names are based on the names of
gods. It&#8217;s one thing to potentially insult someone by mispronouncing
<em>their</em> name. It&#8217;s another altogether to butcher the name of
their <em>god</em>.
</p>
<p>
In this post I won&#8217;t give you enough to make you 100% accurate, but I
can give you a few rules of thumb that will cover the vast majority of
problems that I&#8217;ve seen Americans have:
</p>
<ul>
<li>More often than you&#8217;d think, Indian names have the emphasis on the
first syllable. This is the number one mistake I hear Americans making with
Indian names. Even when you hear someone saying a name with the emphasis
the right way, it somehow feels natural to us to emphasize the second (or
later) syllable.

</li>
<li>Don&#8217;t assume a long &quot;a&quot; sound. Over time, we Americans have
taught ourselves to at least <em>attempt</em> to pronounce European names
correctly. We naturally try to apply the same rules to Indian names. If you
see a &quot;a&quot;, it will either have the sound of &quot;cut&quot; (most
common) or &quot;a&quot; as in &quot;father&quot;&#8212;NEVER &quot;a&quot;
as in &quot;bake&quot;.

</li>
<li>&quot;e&quot; is always as in a cross between &quot;leg&quot; and
&quot;lay&quot; and never as in &quot;Steve&quot; or the second syllable of
&quot;clever&quot;. So &quot;Suresh&quot; would be pronounced &quot;Soo
<em>Raysh</em>&quot;

</li>
<li>&quot;i&quot; is always as in &quot;hit&quot; or the vowel sound of
&quot;clean&quot;. Never &quot;i&quot; as in &quot;life&quot;.

</li>
<li>&quot;u&quot; is always like &quot;foot&quot; or &quot;brute&quot;. Never
like &quot;cut&quot;.

</li>
<li>&quot;o&quot; is always like &quot;flow&quot;. Never like &quot;hot&quot;.

</li>
<li>There aren&#8217;t many &quot;special&quot; rules. In English,
&quot;ch&quot; can mean &quot;sh&quot; in some cases. When you see Indian
names with &quot;ch&quot; in them, the &quot;ch&quot; is always as in
&quot;Chair&quot;.

</li>
<li>There is no &quot;th&quot; sound like we have in English. &quot;th&quot;
makes an aspirated (harder and breathier) &quot;t&quot; sound. If you
can&#8217;t hear and/or reproduce the aspiration, it&#8217;s better to err
on the side of &quot;t&quot; as in &quot;Tom&quot; as opposed to
&quot;th&quot; as in &quot;the&quot;. &quot;th&quot; as in &quot;the&quot;
will always be wrong.

</li>
<li>&quot;j&quot; is pronounced like an English &quot;j&quot;. Don&#8217;t try
to Spanishize it into &quot;h&quot;.

</li>
<li>When you meet someone from another country, take the time to ask them how
to pronounce their name. Then try it and have them correct you. They
won&#8217;t be offended. They will appreciate the fact that you actually
tried.

</li>
</ul>
<p>
Some examples:
</p>
<ul>
<li>&quot;Rohit Thakur&quot; - <em>Row</em> hit <em>Tah</em> koor

</li>
<li>&quot;Ramesh&quot; - Ruh <em>mesh</em>

</li>
<li>&quot;Chandra&quot; - <em>Chun</em> druh

</li>
<li>&quot;Venkatesh&quot; - <em>Ven</em> kah tesh

</li>
<li>&quot;Rashmi&quot; - <em>Rush</em> me

</li>
<li>&quot;Uday&quot; - oo <em>day</em> (not &quot;You day&quot;)

</li>
<li>&quot;Ramana&quot; - <em>Rah</em> muh nuh (Don&#8217;t emphasize the second
syllable, making it sound like &quot;Ramada (inn)&quot;)

</li>
</ul>
<p>
Please <a href="mailto:chad+indiannames@chadfowler.com">send</a>
corrections and/or suggestions if you have them.
</p>
<p>
Updates (thanks!):
</p>
<ul>
<li><a href="http://halostatue.ca/">Austin Ziegler</a> helped make my language
less ambiguous, Fred LeMaster suggests

</li>
<li>Fred LeMaster suggests watching English-language Indian movies (there are
some really good ones!) to help learn the pronunciation. Some suggestions
(his and mine) are <a href="http://imdb.com/title/tt0265343/">Monsoon
Wedding</a>, <a href="http://imdb.com/title/tt0109206/">Bandit Queen</a>,
<a href="http://imdb.com/title/tt0150433/">Earth</a>, and <a
href="http://imdb.com/title/tt0116308/">Fire</a>.

</li>
<li><a href="http://chandrakantgopalan.blogspot.com/">Chandrakant Gopalan</a>
wrote in with an excellent addition to the &quot;e&quot; section.

</li>
<li><a href="http://climbtothestars.org/">Stephanie Booth</a> pointed out that
&quot;what&quot; isn&#8217;t pronounced the same everywhere, so I changed
the example to use &quot;cut&quot;

</li>
</ul>
